feat(ai-monitoring): Add AI Monitoring docs (#9807)
getsentry/sentry-docs: docs/product/ai-monitoring/getting-started/the-dashboard.mdx

---

> title: The Dashboard
> sidebar_order: 100
> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: AI Monitoring Dashboard
sidebar_order: 100
description: "Learn how to use Sentry's AI Monitoring Dashboard."
---
```

> 
> Once you've [configured the Sentry SDK](/product/ai-monitoring/getting-started/) for your AI project, you'll start
> receiving data in the Sentry AI Monitoring dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Once you've configured the [Sentry SDK](/product/ai-monitoring/getting-started/) for your AI project, you'll start
receiving data in Sentry's AI Monitoring dashboard.
```

Author: Changing the link like this makes it less clear that the link is to the configuration page - I would expect [sentry sdk] to just be the homepage of the docs or something like that.

![AI Monitoring Dashboard](../img/pipelines-view.png)

> ## The per-pipeline dashboard

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The Per-pipeline Dashboard
```

> In this case, there are two Langchain pipelines (whose `.name` is the name that shows up in the table).
> One has used 58,000 tokens in the past hour, and the other has used 44,900 tokens.
> 
> When you click one of the pipelines in the table, you can see details about that particular pipeline.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example below, there are two LangChain pipelines (whose `.name` is the name that shows up in the table).
One has used 58,000 tokens in the past hour, and the other has used 44,900 tokens. When you click one of the pipelines in the table, you can see details about that particular pipeline.

```

![AI Monitoring for a specific pipeline](../img/details-view.png)

> The "Ask Sentry" pipeline has used 59 thousand tokens, and taken 3.2 seconds on average.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you can see in the example above, the "Ask Sentry" pipeline has used 59 thousand tokens and taken 3.2 seconds on average.
```

<Note>

> An AI pipeline is different than simply calling an LLM. If you are creating AI pipelines by calling LLMs directly (without using a tool like Langchain),
>     consider using [Manual AI Instrumentation](/product/ai-monitoring/getting-started/#manually-instrumenting-ai-workloads)
> </Note>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Creating an AI pipeline is different than calling an LLM. If you're creating AI pipelines by calling LLMs directly (without using a tool like LangChain), consider using [manual AI instrumentation](/product/ai-monitoring/getting-started/#manually-instrumenting-ai-workloads).
</Note>
```

> ## Where AI data shows up in the trace view

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Where AI Data Shows Up In the Trace View
```

> The Sentry SDK will (if configured to include PII) add the prompts and responses to LLMs and other AI models to
> the spans in the Trace view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If configured to include PII, the Sentry SDK will add prompts and responses to LLMs and other AI models to spans in the trace view.
```

![AI Monitoring trace example](../img/trace-view.png)

> 
> In the picture above, you can see that the `ai.chat_completions.create.langchain` span
> has been decorated with its input messages and LLM responses.
> Other spans like `ai.chat_completions.create.openai` include the number of tokens used for that particular
> chat completion.
> 
> This view can include other data as well. If you call your LLM from a webserver, the trace will include details
> about the webserver through other integrations, and you'll get a holistic view of all the related parts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

In the example above, you can see input messages and LLM responses related to the `ai.chat_completions.create.langchain` span. Other spans like `ai.chat_completions.create.openai` show the number of tokens used for that particular chat completion.

This view can show other data as well. For example, if you call your LLM from a webserver, the trace will include details about the webserver through other integrations, and you'll get a holistic view of all the related parts.
```
